docker/README.md, before:

# Chemical Hazard Tool: docker deployment

This docker compose file is based on the example of running the Table-Top Infrastructure. 

This `docker-compose.yml` will start the following services:

- Zookeeper: [Apache Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/), an internal service, required for managing the state of connected client (what group of clients have read what messages). In case a client crashes, it can continue processing messages where it crashed.
- Broker: [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) is an open-source distributed event streaming platform used by thousands of companies for high-performance data pipelines, streaming analytics, data integration, and mission-critical applications. All TTI messages are streamed over Kafka between different solutions.
- Schema registry: Each published message must adhere to a an [AVRO-based](https://avro.apache.org/) schema, so each connected client knows exactly what information it receives. 
- Kafka REST: A REST client for getting information from Kafka.
- [Kafka topics UI](kafka-topics-ui): An optional service to easily inspect the Kafka topics, and the messages that were sent.
- [Kafka schema registry UI][schema-registry-ui]: An optional service to easily inspect the AVRO schemas that are used per topic (each topic is associated with one and only one schema, but a schema may have different versions).
- Bootstrapper: A service that runs on startup, registering all required schemas and topics. When creating new schema files, just add them to the `schemas` folder and add their name to the `PRODUCE_TOPICS` environment variable of the bootstrapper, so the producer can create them on start-up.
- Meteo Web Service: A web service that retreives the current meteo information.
- Dispersion service: A web service that computes the dispersion of a gas cloud.
- Chemical Hazard Tool: A combination of a server and GUI that enable the user to interface with the dispersion service and inspect the output of the Chemical Hazard Tool.
- [Traccar][traccar-local]: An open source [GPS server][traccar-website] that can receive the location of various clients. The image starts an administration interface accesible via the browser with the default credentials (user: admin, password: admin).
- SAS forwarder: A Python server that listens for GPS data forwarded by Traccar after which it transforms the data into a suitable format for SAS and Kafka.

# Starting the environment

For the forwarding to SAS to work the `sas_forwarder` service needs [externally defined environment variables][env-file] with the SAS credentials (`SAS_USERID` and `SAS_AUTHTOKEN`).
If this file is missing everything else will work except for the SAS forwarding.

To start all the services in the background (`-d` flag) run the following command in the current folder:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Inspecting the environment

If you have [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed, you can try `dockly` (`npm i -g dockly`).  
Alternatively, if the [Docker plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-docker) is installed in [VS code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), the logs can be shown by rightlicking on the running image and pressing "Logs".

[kafka-topics-ui]: http://localhost:3600
[schema-registry-ui]: http://localhost:3601
[traccar-local]: http://localhost:8084
[traccar-website]: https://www.traccar.org/
[env-file]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/#the-env-file

Commit message:

Updated docker-compose to fall-back to no proxy in case the proxy address is not set.

docker/README.md, after:

# Chemical Hazard Tool: docker deployment

This docker compose file is based on the example of running the Table-Top Infrastructure. 

This `docker-compose.yml` will start the following services:

- Zookeeper: [Apache Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/), an internal service, required for managing the state of connected client (what group of clients have read what messages). In case a client crashes, it can continue processing messages where it crashed.
- Broker: [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) is an open-source distributed event streaming platform used by thousands of companies for high-performance data pipelines, streaming analytics, data integration, and mission-critical applications. All TTI messages are streamed over Kafka between different solutions.
- Schema registry: Each published message must adhere to a an [AVRO-based](https://avro.apache.org/) schema, so each connected client knows exactly what information it receives. 
- Kafka REST: A REST client for getting information from Kafka.
- [Kafka topics UI](kafka-topics-ui): An optional service to easily inspect the Kafka topics, and the messages that were sent.
- [Kafka schema registry UI][schema-registry-ui]: An optional service to easily inspect the AVRO schemas that are used per topic (each topic is associated with one and only one schema, but a schema may have different versions).
- Bootstrapper: A service that runs on startup, registering all required schemas and topics. When creating new schema files, just add them to the `schemas` folder and add their name to the `PRODUCE_TOPICS` environment variable of the bootstrapper, so the producer can create them on start-up.
- Meteo Web Service: A web service that retreives the current meteo information.
- Dispersion service: A web service that computes the dispersion of a gas cloud.
- Chemical Hazard Tool: A combination of a server and GUI that enable the user to interface with the dispersion service and inspect the output of the Chemical Hazard Tool.
- [Traccar][traccar-local]: An open source [GPS server][traccar-website] that can receive the location of various clients. The image starts an administration interface accesible via the browser with the default credentials (user: admin, password: admin).
- SAS forwarder: A Python server that listens for GPS data forwarded by Traccar after which it transforms the data into a suitable format for SAS and Kafka.

# Starting the environment

## Environment variables
For the forwarding to SAS to work the `sas_forwarder` service needs [externally defined environment variables in the `.env` file][env-file] with the SAS credentials (`SAS_USERID` and `SAS_AUTHTOKEN`).
If this file is missing everything else will work except for the SAS forwarding.

Additionally when this docker-compose is deployed outside of the TNO VPN network (e.g. on the assistance.hex.tno.nl server) the `TNO_PROXY` environment variable needs to be set in the `.env` file. Simply add a line `TNO_PROXY=http://proxy.tno.nl:8080` a file named `.env` next to the `docker-compose.yml` file.

## Launch
To start all the services in the background (`-d` flag) run the following command in the current folder:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Inspecting the environment

If you have [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed, you can try `dockly` (`npm i -g dockly`).  
Alternatively, if the [Docker plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-docker) is installed in [VS code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), the logs can be shown by rightlicking on the running image and pressing "Logs".

To open a shell in one of the containers you can use the command

```
docker-compose exec ${service_name} sh
```

[kafka-topics-ui]: http://localhost:3600
[schema-registry-ui]: http://localhost:3601
[traccar-local]: http://localhost:8084
[traccar-website]: https://www.traccar.org/
[env-file]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/#the-env-file
